DATA VISUALIZATION
Data visualization is the graphical representation of information and data. By using visual 
elements like charts, graphs, and maps, data visualization tools provide an accessible way to 
see and understand trends, outliers, and patterns in data. Additionally, it provides an excellent 
way for employees or business owners to present data to non-technical audiences without 
confusion.
Data visualization is the practice of translating information into a visual context, such as a map 
or graph, to make data easier for the human brain to understand and pull insights from. The 
main goal of data visualization is to make it easier to identify patterns, trends and outliers in 
large data sets. The term is often used interchangeably with others, including information 
graphics, information visualization and statistical graphics.


-> Why is data visualization important?
Data visualization provides a quick and effective way to communicate information in a 
universal manner using visual information. The practice can also help businesses identify 
which factors affect customer behaviour; pinpoint areas that need to be improved or need more 
attention; make data more memorable for stakeholders; understand when and where to place 
specific products; and predict sales volumes

Main Components of Data Visualization
1. Data: First of all we need lots of data. Data can be of any type like numerical data, text 
data or geospatial data.

2. Visual Elements: For instance, Graphics, charts, Overlays, diagrams, figures, maps, 
tables and other types of data presentations and resumes that comprise infographics.

3. Visualization Techniques: This also includes aspects such as transforming and scaling 
data, and in some cases indeed selecting the right type of visualization to use.

4. Interactivity: Influential aspects of visualization which could include; The blinking 
bubbles whenever the cursor is over a particular part of the graph, zooming up or down 
the size of the graph, or even rotating the graph and/or options to have the different 
groups or categories on or off among others.

5. Color Palette and Design: New choices on color utilization, font selection, position of 
elements in unison with the style of design to enhance the usability, visibility and the 
aesthetic appeal of visualization.

6. Context and Annotations: The additional roles of Titles and Subtitles in the 
Visualizations and some of the other labels for captions, annotations and legends for 
further understanding of the analysis.

7. Tools and Platforms: Software that falls under "Other Tools and Applications while 
developing visualization" Some of the prominent ones are Tableau, Power BI and more 
programming languages and Libraries are D3. js ,Matplotlib and more.

8. Data Preparation: Data preparation which involves cleaning of data, that is, data 
cleaning processing, data selection, data reshaping and data condensation that gets a 
data in the right form so that it can be analyzed and visualized.

9. Data Exploration: Simple methods for analyzing the data for searching the pattern, 
trend, noise, similarity and correlation other than the techniques.

10. Dashboarding: An aggregate display of the two screens to give an overall view of the 
data collected as well as endlessly monitoring the indicators by having the two tabbed 
views on the same screen.

IMPORTANCE OF DATA VISUALIZATION IN BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE

Data visualization is technique for businesses. It helps them understand their data better, make 
smarter decisions, and stay ahead of the competition. It basically turns boring numbers into 
easy-to-understand pictures or graphs, helping businesses see what's going on and what they 
need to do next.
1. Simplifies Data for Better Understanding: Data visualization makes complex and raw 
data easy to understand by displaying it in the form of graphs and charts. This helps us 
see patterns and important information more clearly.

2. Help Us Make Better Decisions: When we can see our data in pictorial form or graphs 
and chart, it's easier to make smart decisions quickly.

3. Helps In Visualizing Data Easily: Even the people who are not experts in data can 
understand data easily with the help of visualization. Non-technical people can also 
understand the data easily with the help of visualization tools, in the form of graphs and 
charts.

4. Makes Data More Interesting: Visualizations make data more interesting and fun to 
look at, which encourages more people to use data to help their work.

5. Helps in Tracking Progress: Visual dashboards keeps the track of our progress. They 
help us see if we're reaching our goals by giving us a clear picture of our progress.
